IoT-Healthcare-with-AI-Chatbot
# IoT-Healthcare-with-AI-Chatbot

Internet of Things in the healthcare sector has revolutionized the way people monitor and manage their health. IoT healthcare devices and solutions have made it possible for individuals to have greater control and visibility into their well-being. IoT healthcare has the potential to greatly improve health outcomes, enhance patient experiences, reducing health costs and enable solutions for issues like increasing healthcare access in remote areas. It is paving the way for a new era of proactive, predictive, personalized, and precision medicine.
IoT in healthcare has truly revolutionized how we monitor and manage health in the world today.

The project has five main features:

1. Temperature and Pulse Measurement

One of the prime health factors is temperature. Sustaining normal body temperature is very important. Temperature of a human can be varied by various factors such as age, day-to-day activity, and humidity. One of the functionalities of our project is temperature measurement. Measured temperature will be displayed on LCD. The temperature of a person will be measured through LM35 temperature sensor. LM35 is an accurate integrated temperature sensor whose results are based on its surroundings. It is a tiny sensor and IC which measures the temperature from -50 degree C to 150-degree C. It can be simply combined with microcontrollers such as Arduino.

2. BMI Calculation

Body Mass Index (BMI) is defined as human weight in Kg by square of height in meters. BMI defines how healthy a person is. It helps in maintaining a fit body. It more specifically says about the fat of human. Second feature in our project is BMI calculation. To calculate the BMI, we have incorporated weight load cell sensor to calculate weight and ultrasonic sensor to measure height. Weight sensor measures the mass of an object. If we place an weight on the sensor weight will be sensed. The output values will be generated through output pins. Height of person is detected by ultrasonic sensor. When sensor is placed at shoulder level height would be detected. The output values generated by load cell and ultrasonic sensor are then sent to Arduino controller.

3. Social Distance Alert

Social distancing is a medium to stop the spread of transmissible diseases. Third feature in our project is social distance alert. It is used to alert any human interference over the safe distance. For purpose of this task, we have used ultrasonic sensor which measures the distance by sending sound wave at frequency and listening to sound wave to bounce back. If any human inference is found, then the buzzer sounds by alerting the user by displaying message on the LCD. 

4.Medicine Reminder

The fourth feature of our project is medicine reminder. Intake of medicine on daily basis for patients like diabetic, bp is very important. Due to various reasons a person can forget the intake of the medicine. Medicine reminder is based on real time base. It can be set based on our preferable timings. For implementing this feature, we used ultrasonic sensor and buzzer. 
